#summary Maven Command Reference

<wiki:toc />

= Introduction =

The document is Maven commands reference. It is organized as sections, each section for one build aspect. Commands listed below cover 90% typical use-cases. Few commands are supported only by Maven 3.

= Project Build =

Clean a project:

{{{
mvn clean
}}}

Compile a project:

{{{
mvn compile
}}}

Run unit tests (it also compiles a project):

{{{
mvn test
}}}

Build a package (it also executes unit tests):

{{{
mvn package
}}}

Run integration test (it also builds a package):

*Notice:*

   Goal `integration-test` should not be used directly to run integration tests. Use `verify` goal instead (see [http://maven.apache.org/plugins/maven-failsafe-plugin/ m-failsafe-p]) for details.  

{{{
mvn verify
}}}

Install a package into local repository (it also executes integration tests):

{{{
mvn install
}}}

Install an artifact into local repository (skip integration test execution):

{{{
mvn -DskipITs=true install
}}}

Install an artifact into local repository (skip unit and integration test execution):

{{{
mvn -DskipTests=true install
}}}

Deploy artifact into enterprise repository:

*Notice:*

  Goal `deploy` should not be called directly. Configure build plan on continuous integration server to deploy artifact into corporate enterprise repository.

{{{
mvn deploy
}}}

= Project Run =

Run Java EE application on local server (Tomcat):

{{{
mvn tomcat6:run
}}}

= Project Site Generation =

*Notice:*

  For modular Maven projects all modules must be installed in the local repository before site generation (issue 12).

Generate site without tests reports (tests are not executed):

{{{
mvn site:site
}}}

Generate site with unit tests reports:

{{{
mvn test site:site
}}}

Generate site with unit and integration tests reports:

{{{
mvn verify site:site
}}}

Generate site stage with valid links between project modules (for multimodule projects site stage is broken, look at issue 9):

{{{
mvn test site:site site:stage
}}}

or 

{{{
mvn verify site:site site:stage
}}}


= Code Coverage Reporting =

I found that it is much more feasible to generate code coverage reports from IDE than from Maven. Write test, write code, run coverage for separated test, and check that all important branches are covered.

Generate Clover reports for unit tests:

{{{
mvn clover2:setup test clover2:aggregate clover2:clover
}}}

Generate clover reports for unit and integration tests:

{{{
mvn clover2:setup verify clover2:aggregate clover2:clover
}}}

*Notice:*

  Read Clover configuration [CloverConfiguration guide].

= Code Quality Analysis =

Analyse code quality with Sonar:

{{{
mvn sonar:sonar
}}}

*Notice:*

  Read Sonar configuration [SonarConfiguration guide].

= Dependency Management =

Check dependencies for newer versions:

{{{
mvn versions:display-dependency-updates
}}}

Check plugins for newer versions:

{{{
mvn versions:display-plugin-updates
}}}

Check for newer versions defined as properties:

{{{
mvn versions:display-property-updates
}}}

Display project dependencies:

{{{
mvn dependency:tree
}}}

Analyze project dependencies:

{{{
mvn dependency:analyze
}}}

= Getting Help =

Display effective Maven settings:

{{{
mvn help:effective-settings
}}}

Display effective POM:

{{{
mvn help:effective-pom
}}}

Display all profiles (from `settings.xml` and POMs hierarchy):

{{{
mvn help:active-profiles
}}}

Display plugin goals (for `m-compiler-p` in the example below):

{{{
mvn compiler:help
}}}

Display plugin's goal description (for goal `compile` in `m-compiler-p` in the example below):

{{{
mvn compiler:help -Dgoal=compile -Ddetail
}}}